So as the best practice, all HTML
should exist in .vue files in either
a template block or a render function.
And so the alternative to this if you're
wondering where else would it live is you
could theoretically split out your
HTML into individual dot HTML files.
Or if you have other preprocessors you'd
like to use like pug, for example.
Some people might actually break
them out into different files.
But this is not
the recommended practice for
a few things that I'll
mention in a little bit.
And so when we use w files,
one of the benefits w provides us is
that it actually has the opportunity
to parse it and basically allow for
some developer ergonomics that
might not be possible otherwise.
If you're simply containing your
HTML in an entirely separate file.
And so one of the examples of
this is self-closing tags.
And so for those that don't have
as much familiar with this.
So here we have a standard span element
that has a class of fa awesome,
fa awesome info.
And so inside view, we can go ahead and
it would be illegal to go ahead and
close this off by itself.
But this wouldn't actually work,
as well as some other custom elements.
This wouldn't work in standard HTML.
So if you're ever working in like kofun,
for example, and you're just trying to do
some self closing elements, only certain
ones are permitted to self close.
And so this is super convenient because
as you're using your dot view files,
when you have different components,
for example, that have longer names or
you're listing multiple attributes,
it allows for a really clean reading
experience from basically what's included
in that component, especially if you don't
have anything being passed in as
far as slots and those things.
So a little bit of a reading ergonomic,
but a nice thing to have
In addition, one of the nice things about
this is that when you include everything
in the .vue file, you don't have to
include the script and style blog.
This is something that I think there
are some misconceptions around.
So if you're just, I just want
the HTML here, that's totally fine.
You can still include it
as just .vue view file.
But then what's nice about this is going
forward as you need to enhance components
because that happens, right?
You start out thinking you only need this.
But as you want t, for example,
either scoped styles to that component, or
maybe even add a little
bit of functionality.
It's as simple as a developer
going into the .vue file and
then adding the script block or
style block,
as opposed to then going into a separate
file or creating a brand new one.
And so this is, again for enforcing
consistency, which is probably one of
the most important things when
it comes to creating production.
A great view apps is having that
consistency then allows people to know
reliably where everything's coming from.
So something to keep in mind for
those things.
And so when we talk about the template
versus the render function,
most of us are familiar up here
with the template block, right.
This contains our HTML and what most of us
have experience with when it comes to vue.
And so
when it comes to the render function,
this is something that most people
probably very rarely encountered,
because a lot of times
there isn't a need for it.
But one of the misconceptions I've seen
a lot with vue is that like templates
are the only way to write HTML and
this couldn't be farther from the case.
So instead of having a template block her,
what we can have instead is we'll
have a render function that were
declared inside of our default,
export default objects.
And so by declaring the render function
in vue two it's automatically passed
the Create element function,
which we can then use to go ahead and
create the individual node objects,
sorry, the DOM elements.
And so in this case, we took our H1
that says hello fronted masters and
as you can see here, we've used a Create
Element function and gone ahead and
created the h1 element with the Hello
frontend Masters text inside of it.
And so this is basically an escape
hatch for when templates become a bit
unwieldly to manage and so we'll practice
an example of this in a little bit.
And so when it comes to vue three,
one of the new things that's gonna
take a little getting used to,
is that vue because it's been basically
code split and it's tree shakable.
Meaning that a lot of different pieces can
be left off of production build if you're
not using it.
This means we're gonna start importing
more helpers from vue three going forward.
So as we can see here I've imported
the this H function, which stands for
hyper script, basically.
And so it's the equivalent of
the Create element function.
And so what this does is this allows us to
then do the same thing as create element.
And so rather than the render
function always being bundled with
the Create element function, in vue three,
what's going to happen is we can simply
pass it the H hyper script function.
And then that will allow us to
then achieve the same thing.
So the main thing here is that the hyper
script function is imported from vue and
then we use it inside
of our render function.
And so
there probably some of you wondering too,
especially those with react backgrounds,
well, does this mean that we can use JSX?
And the answer is absolutely there
are babel plugins that we can add to
vue apps to that In the event,
you wanna use JSX,
you can use that with the render
function just like you would in react.
Templates are the honestly the best way
to write HTML because it's extremely
declarative.
And anyone can get in there and
understand basically what's going on.
So it's recommended as the default.
However, in the event, you need to
programmatically create your markup
basically, this is where render
functions can be extremely powerful.
And so in the exercise we're gonna
do together we're gonna go ahead and
build an example of this to show where
the render function might be better than
the template function.
Another technique that I've seen a lot
on big vue applications is the V-bind
v- on object shorthand, and so
unfortunately I think the experience
with this is mixed so this is why
we're gonna cover this right now.
So most of us are familiar
with the V-bind and
v-n direct is where it allows us to
dynamically bind either props or events,
to our elements and
do whatever we need to it.
So here we have the vue
multi-select component and
we've bound a couple of things to it,
right.
We've bound the options,
the value of the label,
and we've bound three different events,
three different methods.
And so, as you can imagine though,
even with just these six, so these three,
three attributes and three events,
there's a lot of noise going on here.
And this gets even worse.
The longer you have
components with more props or
more events it can be a lot what a lot
of people don't realize is that this can
actually be shorthand into
the v-bind object syntax.
And so v-bind can basically then think
of it almost like a spread operator.
It takes an object where it takes the
individual key pairs, as far as what the,
in this case, the attribute name is.
So in this case,
whether it's options, value label,
and then we bind it to whatever
JavaScript equivalent that we want.
And the same can be done for
the v-on as well.
And so you can see here that our events
now have been reorganized into the object
format, which then allows us to basically
contain everything in an object.
And so some of you are probably
thinking already too.
So with ES6, we can go ahead and
shortcut this,
into just the key itself since the key and
the value are identical.
And then on top of this what we
have as well, which is really nice,
is that you can then because
it's just a JavaScript object,
we if we had a VMs props for
vue multiselect.
Instead of a data object,
we can then bind that and
then track it somewhere else entirely.
And this allows us to shortcut
what exactly is being
bound into this component.
And so just as we can do that for v- bind,
we can do the same thing as
well with the v-on as well.
And so you might be wondering, okay, so
which one is, why would I choose one or
the other?
So when you just have simple prompt
declarations or a few events,
it's only doesn't make sense to do
the shorthand because as you can see, it
basically obfuscates what exactly is being
bound and what events are being triggered.
However, when you're doing things
like binding on things that needs to
be dynamic.
So whether you're swapping out components
with the component the built in component,
for example, or other things were properly
to change, then this is a great way for
us to then swap out only what's needed for
the component.
And something to basically
keep in mind and
a lot of people use when it comes to
dynamically generating components.
So, I just want you to keep that technique
in mind cuz you'll see it a lot in
different code bases.
So, there's a question
regarding the render function.
So, I'm gonna go ahead, and
let me back up to here, okay.
So, regarding the H functionality here.
So, H is basically the equivalent here of
create element that we saw in vue two,
but in vue, they use the h to name for
the utility function for
hyper script for
basically creating markup.
And so inside of the render function,
basically we
use that as basically think of it just
like another name for a treat element.
And what it does here in the simplest
form, it takes two arguments,
which is the element that you
want to create on the left.
So that's why it's the H1.
And then what will go inside of
the element and in this case,
and just plain text,
it'll be Hello Frontend Masters.
And so for
those who wanna use the render function,
one of the things that also makes it
tricky in comparison with the template
is that there's a whole
API that goes with it.
You have to learn how to
dynamically bind classes,
figure out which arguments do what.
And I totally recommend checking out
the dots if this is something that's
worth doing.
But this is why for the most part,
it's usually more valuable to just use
the template and only the render function
when there's an actual improvement as far
as developer experience and maintenance.